Section 299. Culpable homicide.
Whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of causing death, or with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, or with the knowledge that he is likely by such act to cause death, commits the offence of culpable homicide.

Section 300. Murder.
Except in the cases hereinafter excepted, culpable homicide is murder if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of causing death, or is done with the intention of causing such bodily injury as the offender knows to be likely to cause death, or with the intention of causing bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.

Section 302. Punishment for murder.
Whoever commits murder shall be punished with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

Section 304. Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
Whoever commits culpable homicide not amounting to murder shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine, if the act is done with the intention of causing death.

Section 304A. Causing death by negligence.
Whoever causes the death of any person by doing any rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Section 375. Rape.
A man is said to commit "rape" if he has sexual intercourse with a woman under circumstances falling under any of the described descriptions, including against her will, without her consent, or with consent obtained under fear of death or hurt.

Section 376. Punishment for rape.
Whoever commits rape shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less than ten years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

Section 378. Theft.
Whoever, intending to take dishonestly any movable property out of the possession of any person without that person's consent, moves that property in order to such taking, is said to commit theft.

Section 379. Punishment for theft.
Whoever commits theft shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Section 420. Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property.
Whoever cheats and thereby dishonestly induces the person deceived to deliver any property to any person shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Section 498A. Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty.
Whoever, being the husband or the relative of the husband of a woman, subjects such woman to cruelty shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.

Section 124A. Sedition.
Whoever by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the Government established by law in India, shall be punished with imprisonment for life, to which fine may be added.
